---
layout: post
title:  '"2017 in Review"'
date: 2017-12-19 19:00:00 +0100
number: 18
eventbrite: "http://off-the-record-18.eventbrite.co.uk/"
_artist_name: "N/A"
_album_name: "N/A"
cover_image: "assets/img/records/2017.png"
cover_caption: "We'll be passing the mic to the group for you to share the music you most enjoyed in 2017."
year: 2017
photo: "assets/img/otr18.jpg"
thumbnail: "assets/img/otr18_smaller.jpg"
spotify: https://open.spotify.com/user/mattpointblank/playlist/5GDvmKrjkheHTPSf4rUJ7T
host: Matt Andrews
---

Our final Off The Record of 2017 saw us pass the mic to the group for you to share the music you most enjoyed in 2017. Rather than listening to a whole album, the night was made up of individual tracks from the group's favourite albums released this year.

We enjoyed another musical quiz, with questions below:

##### Question 1
**Q**: How many Christmas-themed songs has Cliff Richard reached the UK top 10 with? 

**A**: Four. They were:
- 21st Century Christmas (#2 in 2006)
- Millennium Prayer (#1 in 1999)
- Mistletoe & Wine (#1 in 1988)
- Saviour’s Day (#1 in 1990)

##### Question 2
**Q**: How many times has Band Aid’s “Do They Know It’s Christmas?” been released? 

**A**: Four: in 1984, 1989, 2004 and 2014. 

##### Question 3
**Q**: Chris Rea was famously “driving home for Christmas” in 1988. But which of these cars was the highest-selling in the UK during the 80s? 

**A**: Ford Escort. It sold 1.6m in the 1980s.

##### Question 4
**Q**: True or False? Shane MacGowan of the Pogues initially recorded both the male and female vocals for Fairytale Of New York himself until they came across Kirsty MacColl.

**A**: True. There’s a demo somewhere!

##### Question 5
**Q**: In 1971 John and Yoko sang “Happy Xmas (War is Over)” about the Vietnam war. But how many more years did they have to wait until war was, indeed, over?

**A**:  Four years. The Vietnam war ended in April 1975

##### Question 6
**Q**: Jimmy Boyd recorded “I Saw Mommy Kissing Santa Claus” in 1952 at the age of 13. What was the divorce rate that year in America?

**A**: 25%. It’s unclear what proportion of this was down to adultery with Santa.

##### Question 7
**Q**: True or False? The song “Silent Night” was declared an “intangible cultural heritage” by UNESCO in 2011.

**A**: True. Another item on the same list is the Belgian tradition of shrimp fishing on horseback. 

##### Question 8
**Q**: “Walking in the Air” was recorded for the 1982 movie The Snowman. But what was the name of the fictional boy who sings it?

**A**: James. Also, there’s a David Bowie intro to the Snowman and it’s amazing.

##### Question 9
**Q**: Paul McCartney released “Wonderful Christmastime” in 1979. What was the terrible name of the accompanying B-side?

- Drum All Ye Faithful 
- Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reggae
- Little Drum’n’bass Boy
- God Rock Ye Merry Gentlemen

**A**: Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reggae.

##### Question 10
**Q**: How much in royalties is Mariah Carey estimated to have made from “All I Want For Christmas Is You”?

**A**: $60m: the 11th best-selling single of all time.

##### Question 11
**Q**: In the song “The 12 Days of Christmas”, what is the seventh item?

**A**: 7 Swans a-Swimming

##### Question 12
**Q**: In 2009, Rage Against The Machine got the Christmas Number One with “Killing In The Name Of”. How many times does the uncensored version of the song include the word “fuck”?

**A**: 17

##### Question 13
**Q**: True or False: Actor Neil Morrissey has had more #1 singles than Morrissey from the Smiths?

**A**: True (Neil Morrissey recorded the Bob The Builder Christmas #1 in 2000)

### Songs
There was a huge list of music nominated by pretty much everyone in the room (18 festive music lovers) – thanks to all of you. The playlist is below – some fantastic music from the last twelve months (and beyond).
